Israel attempts
to justify
its raid of the al-Shifa hospital.
Conditions inside
the complex are growing
more dire by the day.
CNN's Dana Bash here has an update
on the humanitarian crisis
unfolding all across Gaza.
Right.
It's a scene
should be filled with innocents.
But these drawings, sketches of houses
paint a picture of all these children
have lost
hope for the displaced.
Now, makeshift shelters in central Gaza
live in limbo with nowhere to go
in the south as more children are buried.
Another warning,
leaflets dropped by the Israeli
military on Thursday,
telling civilians
in southern Gaza
to move and find shelter.
A foreboding signal
that Israel's ground incursion
could soon extend its punishing reach.
Now they are asking us to leave.
Where do we go?
And we want to understand
where exactly we should go.
It should Denia,
the U.N.
rights expert on Thursday
warned that grave violations
committed by Israel point,
in their words,
to a genocide in the making.
As darkness encompasses
doctors in the South
already grappling
with the impact of Israel's
intensifying bombing campaign.
There are growing fears over
what could come next.
Desperate scenes from the north of Gaza,
almost entirely destroyed
by Israel's unrelenting airstrikes, show
just how dire
the situation can quickly become in the.
We have lost contact with our colleagues,
patients
and everyone inside the al-Shifa
medical complex.
What stopped it?
Israeli forces
say they are still active in
and around the al-Shifa hospital.
Gaza's largest,
claiming to have found
an operational tunnel
saw at the hospital complex
with no access to the complex.
CNN is unable to verify either
side's claims.
Israel says its
military operation at al-Shifa
will take time,
raising fears over the safety
and security of more
than a thousand patients
and medical staff now trapped inside.
We are looking at options
for full medical evacuation,
but there are a lot of security concerns.
There are a lot of logistics constraints.
Our options are rather limited.
There were
allegations of people
at al-Shifa being interrogated
and even stripped
are beginning to emerge.
While doctors are detailing
the harrowing decisions
they are being forced to make,
including amputating limbs
to stop the spread of infection,
who, with the communications
blackout, cutting northern Gaza off
for much of the outside world.
CNN has no ability to verify
these accounts
and has reached out
to the IDF for comment.
No videos have emerged from Stone
Shifa Hospital
since the raid began in the early
hours of Wednesday morning.
These are
some of the last pictures
to have been shared with the world.
Premature babies in intensive care.
There is no way to tell
if all are still alive.
Their cries,
some of the last heard heard
the voices of those inside.
And Shifa the silence when it came.
Look, Wolf,
there is still mounting concern
for the safety and security
of those patients
and medical staff,
as well as other civilians
inside the al-Shifa complex.
As you heard there,
it is extremely difficult
to even begin to think about evacuating
some of these patients
who require specialist
medical evacuations.
And as we know, of course, already
there are some 1.5 million Palestinians
who have been displaced
within the Gaza Strip.
And, of course,
while that has been an intense
focus on the al-Shifa complex,
what we are seeing across the Gaza
Strip is continued
aerial bombardment, continued concern
over the mounting death
toll that we are seeing,
Wolf, not of Bashir
reporting live from Jerusalem.
Thank you a very much.
Let's get some more
on all of these developments.
Joining us now,
a spokesperson
for the Israel Defense Forces,
Lieutenant Colonel
Amnon Scheffler Scheffler.
Lieutenant Colonel,
thank you so much for joining us,
first of all.
What more can you tell us
about this, quote,
operational tunnel shaft
that Israeli forces say they found inside
al-Shifa complex?
Is that the extent of what
the IDF has found at al-Shifa so far
when it comes to tunnels,
or is there more?
This is one of
the piers that we found in the area
that we are continuously
also looking for other.
And this shows that clearly
there is a tunnel infrastructure
underneath the al-Shifa hospital.
We found also today
a lot of explosives
and other ammunitions
right
in that courtyard of the al-Shifa
hospital.
Also together with what we found
yesterday in the MRI room.
We also found the car
that you just showed
that is similar to the cars
that were used
on the October 7th massacre.
And it was booby trapped once again
showing how Hamas did not care
and was looking forward
to explode a car
inside the Shifa hospital
that would
surely have killed
also patients and staff of that hospital.
Lieutenant Colonel,
can you say unequivocally
that what's been found
at the hospital shows
this was a major Hamas command center?
What exactly do you defined
as a command center?
Yes, we can say that now, clearly.
And now we're also showing it
on top of the evidence
that we knew from the intel
and that they are U.S.
counterparts have also verified.
What we're seeing here
is a place where Hamas can gather.
We saw the communication tools
that they had.
We saw the intel tools
that they need
in order to facilitate
any kind of terrorist activity
and carry it out
from that infrastructure that they used.
Again, another civilian infrastructure.
Similarly, like they used schools,
like they used mosques,
and also like
they used this
hospital, Al-Quds
hospital, the Rantisi Hospital,
to carry out and plan
and execute terrorist activity.
The director of al-Shifa hospital
there says patients
there are going untreated,
including a lot of children.
Doesn't Israel have an obligation
to deliver critical supplies
to to at least the patients there?
We have an obligation,
a moral obligation, and we wish to.
That is why
today we brought 4000 liters of water
to the hospital.
That is why we brought today
1500 prepared meals to the hospital.
That is why we are continuously talking
to the administration of the hospital
and the doctors
and to see what is needed.
And based on what they said,
we brought in the incubators.
We brought in baby food.
We have designated
an area of the hospital,
the eastern side of it,
that civilians and patients
that can leave
should leave
through the humanitarian corridors
that we are continuously protecting
and allowing those civilians to leave.
And that is why we are in
continuous communication
to find the best way
that we can alleviate
the suffering
that Hamas
is bringing on the people in Gaza.
Are you planning to deliver
fuel to the hospital?
We have offered fuel, 300 liters
that our soldiers brought
while taking a risk to the hospital.
Sadly,
the hospital did not take it in,
probably because the Hamas
was threatening
what would happen to them if they do.
And as I mentioned,
we are in continuous communication
and whatever
the hospital says that they need,
we will try to facilitate that.
The body of an Israeli hostage,
a woman, was found
near al-Shifa hospital.
The IDF says
she was killed by terrorists.
Can you explain the exact circumstances
of her death?
65 year old grandmother,
65 year old died.
Vice was found right
next to the al-Shifa hospital
and brought back to his
to Israel
to be buried next to her husband
that was also murdered
on the 7th of October by Hamas.
We have two goals in this war
that Hamas launched.
One is to dismantle Hamas.
And the second
is to bring back the hostages.
Now, on the day 41
are still being held by Hamas.
And I want to remind everyone,
the safest and fastest way
for these hostages to come home
is for Hamas to release them
and the international community
to continue pressuring Hamas to do so.
So do you know exactly how
this 65 year old grandmother died?
We know that she, on October
7th, was alive
in her bed in Kibbutz
Berri,
and Hamas came in and brutally massacred
10% of that kibbutz
and took her as hostage together
with a nine month old baby,
children, women and elderly.
And now we know
that she has sadly passed away.
As you know, Israel has dropped leaflets
in the largest city in southern Gaza
warning civilians there to leave.
The IDF
previously told people
to move south for safety.
So where are they supposed to go?
Lieutenant Colonel,
where are the ones that are actually
continuously communicating
with the people of Gaza,
looking for the safer areas
where they can be?
Because we knew that
Hamas has its headquarters,
mainly in the Gaza City.
That is where operationally
we chose to start.
But sadly,
as we know, Hamas is operating
all over the Gaza Strip.
More than 10,000 rockets have been fired
from the Gaza Strip
towards Israeli civilians.
And this includes
coming from the southern part of Gaza.
So Hamas is not operating
only in Gaza City.
It's operating also in the south.
And in order
to reach our number one goal,
which is to dismantle Hamas,
we will go them wherever they are.
Yet we are
looking for the safest places
for the civilians of Gaza.
And that is why we've asked them
initially to move
to the southern part of Gaza,
south of the border of Gaza.
And now we're telling them
specifically where to move
within that area.
And also,
while doing so,
we're continuously in communication
with any international organization
that wants to aid
the Gazans, bring in any international
medicine facilities, food
that can be help, including field
hospitals that we're inviting any country
that wants to donate them, to bring them
to the southern part of Gaza
so we can help the Palestinians,
as we said,
reaching the goal of dismantling Hamas
will not only bring it
to be safer for Israelis,
it will also bring it to be safer
for the Palestinians living in Gaza.
Lieutenant Colonel Amnon Scheffler,
thanks so much for joining us.
Thanks for having us.